# The Hydra Protocol

Hydra is a simple protocol for opportunistic sharing of events and content.

The goal of the Hydra project is to explore and learn how to share knowledge and information across short-lived wireless networks between mobile users. Hydra exploits "proximity networks", that is the physical closeness of individuals. The Hydra project is part of the edgenet campaign to design and build decentralized networks, with no dependency on broadband Internet nor centralized services.

Plausibly, Hydra could evolve into a fully decentralized social network, closely mapping and amplifying existing human protocols for knowledge and information sharing. However at this stage, Hydra is simply a model for exchanging chat and perhaps cat photos.

Hydra does make some core assumptions about technology and platform. It assumes that:

* The platform is a mobile smartphone or tablet, probably running Android;
* Connectivity is wireless, over WiFi or Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE);
* Peers discover and talk to each other opportunistically, as individuals move around.

Not that Hydra is not a mesh network, nor an end-user application. It is a model for representing data, a protocol for exchanging it, and in this project, a simple implementation written in C and Java and Clojure that tests the concept over ZeroMQ.

## The Hydra Data Model










## Prerequisite github projects

- imatix/gsl
- zeromq/libzmq
- zeromq/czmq
- zeromq/zproto

## Goals

Hydra is a protocol for opportunistic state exchange. State is composed of "posts" that have zero or more "tags" which allow searching and categorization. Peers carry a number of posts that they offer to others.

While some state exchange prototocols focus on eventual consistency and replication, Hydra focuses on exploration. These are the assumptions we made when designing Hydra:

* Peers will see each other and connect for short periods of time, over fragile connections, usually WiFi.
* The value of a post diminishes rapidly with time, thus any exchange starts with the most recent posts and works backwards in time.
* We do not care, at this stage, about authentication, encryption, or identity. Posts are anonymous and provided as-is, without any specified level of trust.
* Posts consist of opaque content plus metadata.
* Posts are uniquely identified by a hash (post ID) generated by its producer.
* Posts are immutable.

## Work in Progress

This is an exercise not a formal proposal. :-)

## Ownership and Contributing

The contributors are listed in AUTHORS. This project uses the MPL v2 license, see LICENSE.

The contribution policy is the standard ZeroMQ [C4.1 process](http://rfc.zeromq.org/spec:22). Please read this RFC if you have never contributed to a ZeroMQ project.

## Areas for Research

* How to deal with maliciously low quality content (spam, fakes, altered data, etc.)
